Wills Waves master

Firstly, I'd like to say that you are truly a brother to be proud of. I love you, bro, so much! Even though I don't say it as often as I should!

1.
College you will find is far more free than school. It's down to you to work and find your way. But I know you're ready for it! It's gonna be tough, but everything in life is tough (I know everyone says this), but the truth is anything worthy of yourself is gonna be hard to achieve.
If something is easy, then is it truly worth your time? There's a certain pleasure in working yourself ragged. You take care and enjoyment from doing a hard job well.
Recently I've been working constantly, 7 days a week, 24/7. But people are coming up to me and asking, "How are you doing it?" "You don't get any days off?" I'm confused, you guys get days off? I'm sorry, but if there are days in the week, then I will work on those days! That's valuable time.
But I still feel as if I'm not enough. Strive for greatness, always. Now that doesn't mean like a conqueror. I mean greatness in everything. Be the greatest at holding that door open for someone, be the greatest dancer in that shower, be a great listener…

2.
Life's gonna be far more exciting as more things open up for you. Driving and gradually getting older. Stay true to yourself, however, don't ever stray from your morals, these need to be set in stone, I've found.
People see these things in you, and the right people will be attracted to them. I've also found that if all else fails, a smile works wonders. Be kind, gentle, don't snap at people, and show patience in everything you do.
Patience is a virtue, it really is. People appreciate it. Be kind, kindness is true strength. If you're a good people person, you're already over halfway to becoming successful (that's what grandpa says anyway!).

3.
Don't be afraid to become yourself, be confident because you're a seriously handsome, talented, and clever man. I've tended to find no one is ever really judging you, they are far too engrossed in themselves!
But please remember people are all nervous about something, and it is usually the loudest people who are the most scared. Life is so, so much harder when you're pretending to be someone that you are not. You also feel rather shit all the time too.
Play the character of yourself! You can exaggerate whatever it is that makes you you and you will burn so insanely bright! It's often hard for someone who is pretending to be someone else to actually see that they are pretending.
You must sit and look at yourself, turn your soul over and let it speak to you. Don't live so fast that you can't hear your own soul speak.

4.
Worry worries. It's something I read a long, long time ago, and I've found it helps enormously. Think of it like this, worrying about something just causes more worry. If you can fix it, then do it, if you can't and it's out of your power, then there is nothing you can do but forget it. Nothing will. If you can't change it, leave it and move on.
Recently I've been writing down lists of everything I really care about, family, my time, being outside. If there is something bothering me and it's not on the list… I stop worrying about it. If it doesn't support my journey or my goals, then there is no need to worry.
I often find a big, deep breath does wonders when I feel like my world is crashing down. Take a breath, brother, you've got this.

5.
Noise makes waves. Bro, I've always found it's better to be quiet and listen than loud and drown others out. If you listen, you learn. Learning about others is a brilliant way of reading a room or person.
So stay quiet, and let people and information come to you. Now that's not to say you should be quiet all the time, still be confident and outspoken, but learn to use your voice at the right times. This simply comes with practice, but keep these words in mind when practicing.
No one likes a loud person, they aren't good to be around and you are not interesting if you are constantly talking. Instead, drink the crowd in, take the time to attend to everyone around you. People will be surprised when you talk to them as if you know them already without even uttering a word.
It's an important quality if you can notice things others cannot. So stay quiet when it's right to do so, and build your information stock.

6.
The ladies. Bro, I know I don't need to say much here as you're bound to find a girlfriend! Just remember to only give your heart to someone worthy of you. Find that person, the special one. You will know.
Once you find her, love as fiercely as you can. Be kind, caring, make sure to make her laugh. But be soft and gentle too, as well as strong and gallant. Don't settle for anything less than spectacular, dude! Because you are far too magnificent yourself to pick just okay.

7.
I've also found that the key to living (at the old age of 20!) is to enjoy it. Enjoy everything, dude, work, walking, running. The little things, find joy in those and you shall never be sad. It's crazy that we're even breathing right now!
Just keep going, one step at a time in everything in life. I've also realised that it's best to stay calm, breathe, and think like you're in a chess game! You don't gain anything from freaking out, seriously! Life is already crazy enough, and we take things way too seriously.
Take your time, dance in the rain, come home soaked and laugh at yourself as you put your washing on. Be giddy, be grateful, and be happy to be alive.

8.
Stay fit and healthy, bro. Keep up with the running and the gym. The amount of people I see when coaching who can't stand up or are immobile is crazy. It's not only very attractive, but also makes you yourself feel more confident.
If you can do a proper surfing pop-up, you're far more athletic than anyone I teach!! Movement is brilliant, stay active and don't become lethargic. I tend to find the winter months the hardest times in my life. Keep pushing and striving for a better you.
Not only that, but staying active and doing exciting things is so attractive. It's a testament to yourself and your body if you are active and eager to do things. So prime yourself to take part in everything. Your body is a tool and you must craft and use it.

9.
When times get tough, don't quit. Don't. Ever. Quit. Even if it's just one more day, hour, or minute, get the job done. Giving up will always be one of the worst things you can do.
Even if it seems worthless at the time, you will look back and think, well, it's a good job I finished it. You will, I promise. I know that's very cliché, saying never give up. But that doesn't mean never give up on climbing a mountain. But more never give up on daily activities, routines, or work.

10.
Finally, as an end note, bro, I should mention that the parents are there to help you, always. They've given up over half their life to support and make you the best you. Don't throw that back in their face.
Sometimes they can be testing, but you come out of it realising they were helping. Support them as they support you. Be good, keep your morals strong, and show them the person they wanted you to become.

Anyway, there it is, you're ten waves. There's always more sets coming, dude, always another wave to catch. So live free and happy, don't let bad people touch you, and I hope you fly fast along your wave of life.

Lots of love,
Your brother. Xxx

11.
Look out, next waves are on the horizon! Yewww! Well done for making it to 17 bro, I'm as proud as ever, you're growing into a legendary young man. Your next new wave I believe is rather relevant to this new age milestone. Live slow. Take your time. Don't rush. So many people wander this earth waiting, longing for their day to come, when they finally start to live. They believe that day is just round the corner, as if all they need to do is sit at home whilst that life comes to them. But once all this is over, let me tell you, they will look back on the life they've lived and see all the opportunities they've missed, the life they've wasted, and notice that all they did was simply exist. I know it's a bit obvious, "don't waste your life dude", but you'd be surprised how many people just don't think until it's too late. So live life damn slow, focus on every single minute, delicious texture of it. Taste it all bro, don't sit around waiting for your life to walk in through the door and say "I'm here! Let's go get 'em", but rather grab life by the hands and take her dancing. Basically, don't waste a moment of your time. Don't wait for your gap year to start living. I'm not saying don't work hard, that's part of it, but don't sit and pine for the future, fucking love the present.

12.
Now I know you think this is just silly coming from me, but seriously I really do think confidence is just a mask you put on whenever you go out in public. It's a character you portray, really. I'm not saying I am someone different in public, but rather I over-exaggerate things which might be seen as confidence. Play the character, be yourself, like just yourself, that can be your character. Sink into yourself, exaggerate what makes you you. Smile, laugh, say whatever you are thinking (as long as it's not rude of course), there's no point holding anything back, life's too short for that (cliché but true). It will click. I read a book a little while ago, it said that really, no one is ever thinking of judging you, ever. They're far too engrossed in themselves and how they portray who they are to the world to be worrying about you. I know you'll say it's easy for me to say all this, but you can't forget that we are brothers, like we look the same dude, no not the exact same, the main difference is I'm 5 years older than you. You're on the right track, enjoy what you're becoming because it's gonna be damn wicked once you start flying. Don't get hung up on people, they are self-centred, every one of them, they only care about what THEY look like. You see, that's the mistake isn't it, they worry so much about themselves when really it's what's happening around you that matters. You look far more beautiful if you're watching the world rather than yourself. I'll leave you with that, have a think on it…

13.
Wasson dudes!! Next wave is coming in hot, get ready for an absolute keg. Worry worries. The more you worry about something the more and more stressful it becomes. It's part of the earth, a law that all things abide by. Worrying about one thing can cause an explosion of worry for other, minor insignificant things. Now, worrying about the future, that's even more dangerous. You cannot change it, not because it's set in stone, but rather because it hasn't been written yet. Your story, your legend, your myth, it still needs to be manifested, still needs to be told. So, be sure to make that story damn thrilling. Make it so utterly spectacular that those that read it will finish begging for more. So don't worry about what the future holds. Focus on yourself. Make yourself magnificent in every tiny thing you do. Shower with gusto, spread your butter with elegance, dance in that kitchen with such ferocity the house threatens to dance right alongside you. I have always believed that if you can't change it, don't worry about it. You cannot change the future because it isn't there, it's intangible. What does change the future, however, is what you do in the now. How can you improve yourself daily, how can you write your story so that every breath you take is poetry on paper? Keep your eyes on the stars, fool, don't let your head ever dip. Not for even a second. You're shining too bright to be dimmed by clouds. Be incandescent, engulf every worry, set alight your heart and pave your own path across this wild world. Your story will be breathtaking in its beauty, heart-racing in its daring, and perpetual in its glory.

14.
Here it is! Another filthy keg barrelling in from the deep Atlantic! You can't let failure win. A famous quote to start things off, "Tell me, Atlas. What is heavier, the world or its people's hearts?" Atlas holds the weight of the world on his shoulders, yet it's the pressure the people put on themselves that is the heaviest burden. We are drowning in our drive for success. We forget that failure is how we learn, how we grow to become the person we want. You are a half-carved statue, an unfinished work of art. It's failure that creates the masterpiece, failure is your chisel. Yet it is you who holds the hammer, your drive and determination that will bring down the blows. Iron out your imperfections with failure and grow into the individual you have always strived to become. You must not be a slave to the fear of failure, don't be shackled by worry, don't be snared by the what-ifs and has-beens. When the battle begins failure will not sit heavy in your heart. You have carved your statue, and in that carving you can be completely confident in your own skill. I think that is the key to this little wave. You have to have complete and stone-shattering faith in yourself. Your skills, abilities, mind. I always think "I'm proud of me, I've been crafting this into something magnificent and I am now ready to show the world my steel". You are the sun and your heart will ignite inside you when it matters most. Success must be tamed. Let it feed on your drive and willingness, show it your earth-shattering belief in your own skills and strength. Success shall bow to those who are willing to shrug off the pressure on their hearts and take up the blade of their confidence. Be fearless when facing your fears and you will be rewarded tenfold.

15.
From the fear of failure we now ride to the fear of success. Now I know what you're thinking, "how can anyone fear success"? But yet again it is our silly hearts weighted with the worry we are not good enough, not skilled enough to succeed. We fear striving for success, and so we accept simply passing through life. Too many people just drift on by, never trying, never failing true, but never succeeding either. A few days ago my mind was blown. I am currently writing my final piece of work for university, and I have been trying to work out what I need to do to get the best mark I can. I'm striving with every minute fibre to achieve my full potential. I ask my friend "what do you believe you need to do to get to your full potential?", he says "ah, I don't really care, I'm happy with an average mark, that's fine". You what? You're happy with simply average? You're happy with the same as every single fucking person on this planet? I was stunned, more stunned still when I ask others and it appears to be a well-known thing, everyone was happy to just pass. JUST PASS? I couldn't understand it, what drove them to seek not success but just getting by? It clicked then, people weren't focused on succeeding, just focused on not failing. They believed that as long as they didn't try too hard, then if they failed they could say "ah it's okay, I didn't really try anyway". This is quite outrageously absurd. Let me tell you, there is no honour or dignity in just passing. How dare we just aim to be "okay", how dare we strive for mediocre. You should be daring the very earth to rise up and strike you down with the sheer excellence of the life you are living. Full potential? There's no such thing, you must steel yourself to push past your limits, push past any potential you may have had. Smash your barriers and become incandescent (look it up). "Don't want to try too hard", fucking try so hard the earth shakes with your stride and the trees bow at your passing. How the hell can you be proud of yourself when you don't even give the task every single ounce of your strength? Burn, set your heart ablaze and show the world you're here to thrive not just survive. Too many of us just drift along in the shadows, be the blazing torch in the darkness and rise up. Remember your story will bring gasps of delight to all that read it. Don't be a boring book, be an odyssey.

16.
Wasson brother, I'm starting this wave whilst driving through France at 10pm on my way back from a ski trip. I'm a bit unsure on where this is going but thought I'd give it a go. I had this fear that too many people believe that being soft is a weakness. That showing kindness is "not cool" and being gentle is a way to get hurt. Let me tell you this is all bollocks (please excuse the language). Real strength does not shine from bullying or violence, but rather it glitters on soft words, gentle hearts and kind smiles. Okay you may be confused as to what "soft" means. Soft as in you care about things. We've spoken about how important caring about even the smallest things is. It's caring about others, caring about yourself and life and all that is in it. Gentleness is showing a quiet calmness in a room of chaos. Gentleness is the reassuring aura you exude without speaking a word. Be soft, delicate in your movements and speech. You want to be elegant and beautiful in the way you present yourself. Elegantly strong and beautifully gentle. Don't be remembered as an asshole who couldn't shut up. I have always found that it's best to stay quiet and listen loudly. Know when to talk and when to learn. Glean knowledge from your peers and you will have mastered their hearts before uttering a word. I promise you, a gentle heart and soft soul is the most powerful thing in this harsh world. To stay kind against everything that is thrown at you is a defiance so magnificent the very stars will fall to your feet. It's far more impressive to stay kind than to become mean and angry. Gentle kindness is strength. It's the quiet kind of strength that commands respect without uttering a word. Who'd want to gain respect just from having to shout at others? Remember though, don't just roll over and let others walk on you. That's not what I'm saying. Don't be docile, be kind and gentle and strong. You are power, rare and untamed. Show your grace and control with your whole being.

17.
Hey bro, back again with another wave! Writing this one on the deck of the Scillonian (a ferry that's taking me to the Isles of Scilly on a research trip with work!). Recently I've been in a bit of a slump. I wouldn't say a dark place as such, more like the shadows in between the stars at night. I feel as if I am adrift and can't work out how to put up my sail. You finish uni and are plagued with adult advice, "oh you want a career, get out and get a job", "no you want experience my friend, if I relived my life I'd stay away from a full-time job for as long as possible", "save your money, be conservative", "go be free, you'll never be this young again!", "start a business", "don't start a business, you will be a slave to it". I'm drowning at the moment in life's pressures. In fact I would say, as ashamed as I am, I haven't been following our Waves advice. I am no longer enjoying the little things, I'm all closed up like a clam. All you ever hear is "oh the world's your oyster", "you could do anything!". But no one ever speaks about how insanely difficult everything is, I know I sound like I'm complaining. And truthfully no one is going to understand it, even other people my age who are going through similar things. My honest belief is that I need to live life a bit, work in different places, see new things and try different experiences. I am young and I will not be foolish and waste this life. Then again I won't be foolish and waste it in my younger years and end up with nothing in the future. These two opposing forces are wild. Both sing of freedom and living. But I refuse to believe that destroying my young body to live happily at 50 is the right thing to do. I look around at people and see that no one can do anything active these days, everyone's got bad backs and are fat from a lethargic life. I'm going to just keep trying to do what I think is right, and hopefully stay true to myself, it's so easy to get lost in the current of life's pressures. Someone's just thrown up next to me from seasickness hahaha… had to move. Anyway, this is it, I've got to start taking the reins of life otherwise I'm going to be taken for a ride rather than be the rider. God, I've fallen into that thing I've been writing about, you know, I'm a shadow of my former self. I need to fucking wake up.

18.
So this is it. Your adventure. I won't be someone to make some big speech about travel, and being safe and enjoying the experience. The parents say it's a holiday but I promise it won't be. It's going to feel as though you've been underwater all your life and suddenly you're thrust up and breathing fresh air. Gulp it down bro, every minute texture of it. Revel in its beauty and take the time to truly live. Don't fear the new world, don't worry over the past or things out of your control. If you can't change it forget about it. You live magnificently every day (or you should do at least), so I'm not gonna say you need to start living now. I will say that you should slow down. Laugh often. Talk to people. Smile. Make mistakes and be embarrassed. Let life live with you now. Let her sit on your shoulder, swinging her feet, eyes alight with the new world you're exploring. You're out of the starting blocks and you're running. Live with the courage to make mistakes. Love recklessly, don't hold back. If things feel like they are getting out of control, take a breath, step back and focus on what you can change. One step at a time. Relish the challenge of adventure. It's a completely new feeling you will find. Ah dude just fucking enjoy every moment. Love like there's no tomorrow and finally shatter any worries you have had. It's happening out there and you are free. Get going and take life dancing. Show it your wild side and embrace it all with glowing abandon. No fear, no self-conscious bullshit. Just you and the world. Get going.

19.
Well well, what do we have here. Yet another wave, wahoooo!! This one's a killer so buckle your seatbelts and wax that board. I'm travelling with you as I write this, I know right, crazy! We're in New Zealand and have quite possibly had the trip of a lifetime! You learn so much while travelling. It puts you in a position unlike anything you've been in before. Doors open, people appear and you start to grasp life by her heart rather than just her hands. A true superpower I'm beginning to see is the ability to notice the small things. People appreciate it if you notice things, names, smiles, eyes, voice, favourite foods, favourite music, memories, times. It's important to live and breathe every moment so that you can capture these things. That's the other part of this wave. Noticing things comes hand in hand with living present and being able to close the past and the future off. Be yourself and be happy with how you are right now. This is something I'm struggling with at the moment. I'm constantly plagued by a fear of the future. But I am living my dream right now so that's what I need to focus on. Don't let a fear of what's to come snatch away the joy of now. So live and love, breathe deep and notice little laughs and sparkling eyes. Be present, take nothing for granted. Be bold and beautiful with your movements. Let your laughter be generous, glow with life. I know it's silly to think like this, but I think being remembered as someone who literally was alive with life, who glowed so much they filled others up with the love of living is such a magnificent way to live. Get out there and fill others up to bursting.
